---
title: "My Site"
description:
  "Front-End development freelance website aimed at prospective customers"
tools: "GatsbyJS, GraphQL, and TailwindCSS"
slug: "jay-business"
date: "2022-10-02"
hero_image: "./jay-business.jpg"
hero_image_alt:
  "A snapshot of the Jay Bittner business site, built with GatsbyJS"
design_credit_text: "Mafer Contreras"
design_credit_link: "https://maferamapola.notion.site/maferamapola/Hola-I-m-Maferamapola-UX-Product-Designer-134bdff3d5a04de2aed5908a24e85246"
github_link: "https://github.com/jtbitt/jay-business"
project_link: "https://www.jaybittner.com"
---

I've been grinding for awhile with my work and other life stuff and not
surprisingly I've neglected certain parts of my life. While my focus in coding
has been quite high, I haven't had an active site for at least a couple years
which was leaving something to be desired as far as my overall satisfaction with
myself. If I'm trying to get my face out there to customers and other like
minded individuals, it's a huge waste for me not to have my face out their on
Google. That's why I decided to build out a new website.

In order for this project to be worth the effort of building, the design needed
to stand out, look unique, and have a style that represented what I like. I'm
really into black and prefer an edgier, dark style so I was aiming for something
in that direction. Design in itself isn't my biggest strength so I asked my
girlfriend Mafer for help in order to put this idea together. She does UX
Research for her current job so we spent a lot of time researching the ideal
customers I would be after and forumlating a design strategy from there. Once we
had figured out all the important answers she put together a cool design for me
to build off of.

<figure>![Website wireframe in Invision](./wireframe.png)</figure>

Once the design wheels were set in motion and taken care of, I needed to get the
code going. React and Angular are great tools but they aren't exactly optimal
for building fast, static websites that render a lot of html content on the
initial page load. You can optimize these tools by implementing different
rendering strategies but it makes a lot more sense to just use tools that are
specifically built for these specific things, so I looked heavily into Gatsby
and Next.js, which still utilize React but in a very effective way for speed and
SEO. After some deliberation, I went for Gatsby as I've been interested in it
for quite awhile and really dig all the built in tools they have set up. They
also have a very cool build platform that is very fast and helpful during the
build process.

<figure>![Website build in Gatsby Cloud](./gatsby-cloud.png)</figure>

I also decided to use Netlify to host the actual site because they have a great
reputation and some unique tools like backend analytics and great forms that
aren't available on Gatsby hosting. They also have CDN capabities that serve
your site to the customer as fast as possible no matter where they are in the
world.

<figure>![Website deploy in Netlify](./netlify.png)</figure>

I started this project off like I do any other project, which is first looking
at the design and deciding how I want to break everything up. Normally I break
up global components, api, etc into it's own folder and then have module folders
for each section of my application. I keep anything that's only used by one
module it the module folder rather than global. In the case of Gatsby, pages are
generated automatically by being in the /pages folder specifically. I played
around with putting components into this but it sort of went against the Gatsby
page generator set up. So for this project I put all hooks, components, etc
inside of a global folder with corresponding sub folders based off of the page
(ex./home). I created all the pages inside of the pages folder.

<div className="flex flex-row justify-center">
  <figure>![Website file structure](./file-structure.png)</figure>
</div>

Once the rough structure was decided, I started building out the skeleton of the
project. Since I really wanted a lot of structure and clean implementation, I
spent a lot of time breaking up my code into small specific components, hooks,
etc to make it as maintainable and organized as possible, even as the project
grows.

<figure>![Clean, optimized home page](./home-page.png)</figure>

I also decided to go with TailwindCSS to do all the CSS, as it eliminates a lot
of rogue CSS classes and stylesheets that get annoying and add loading time.
It's much easier to just use utility classes which have media query capability
to put everything together. Even if someone has never seen your code they can
easily understand the CSS because Tailwind standardizes it.

<figure>![Custom button with TailwindCSS](./custom-button.png)</figure>

I grinded along for awhile, slowly polishing up the look, creating copy to
support my call to action, which is to sell my various coding services.
Everything in my design is based around drawing interest and giving the customer
actionable things they can do in order to use my services. The user is given
several buttons on the landing page, all which take them to the services page
where more specific information, prices, and frequently asked questions are
addressed. If the user wants to become a customer, clicking on any of the
service buttons opens a Calendly modal where they can set up a call with me. I
have a few questions the user needs to answer in order to filter for serious
customers.

<figure>![My coding services](./services.png)</figure>
<figure>![Calendly call to action](./calendly.png)</figure>

If the user gets to the bottom of the landing page without following the call to
action, I give them the option to set up a Calendly meeting with me, contact me
by email, or check out the Services page. The contact form requires the same
questions to be answered as setting up a Calendly meeting. I'm fine with only
some customers getting through the filter because I just want serious customers.
Having the contact form gives the customer another option in case they don't
want to make a call. I have some configuration on the form to derail bots and
other spam.

<figure>![Call to action on end of landing page](./connect.png)</figure>
<figure>![Contact form](./contact.png)</figure>

As I was wrapping up the website, I knew I wanted to set up some 3rd party
scripts to monitor my website activity. In my professional career, using
monitoring tools to help track errors whenever they happen to the end user are
an effective way to lower debug time and also point out some red flags. Anything
I can do to minimize the time fixing bugs is a huge value. I decided to add
Sentry because it has a free tier and it's been very helpful for me in the past.

<figure>![Website error tracking in Sentry](./sentry.png)</figure>

On top of Sentry, in order to track my actual users I wanted to add some type of
analytics. Since my site has a specific call to action that needs to happen, I
thought being able to see how my users interact with the site was important. I
decided to create a Hotjar account so I could watch videos to see where my users
are going and also checking heatmaps to see where they click the most. Hotjar
does lower my website performance score a bit so I will activate/de-activate it
at different points depending on when I want information. For now I have it
de-activated.

<figure>![Website user tracking in Hotjar](./hotjar.png)</figure>

To keep some standard no bullshit analytics as well, I wanted to implement
something for that also. Google Analytics is free and a very effective software
but for my small business site, I felt like it was overkill for a couple of
reasons. First of all, it is a heavy script and significantly lowers performance
scores. The other thing was that it's not really GDPR compliant, so you're
forced to legally show different privacy popups to your users which I thought
was a vibe killer.

I decided to go with an independent GDPR compliant company called Plausible
Analytics which follows users on the client side code. I'm currently on the
trial version but it seems like a no bullshit platform, which I like. I also
have the option to use Netlify server side analytics since I'm hosting with
them, which would give me a different angle, but I decided to hold off on adding
more analytics until I'm doing the more important thing which is getting a lot
of users on my website.

<figure>![Website dashboard in Plausible Analytics](./plausible.png)</figure>

I did my best to follow Gatsby best practices and implement unique SEO for all
pages of my website. I'm admittedly not very experienced doing SEO, so this is a
running experiment right now. Utilizing sites like ahrefs and using Google
Lighthouse to make sure there aren't any leaks that would lower my score, it's
going to be something that improves progressively over time. Also as I link my
content to various sites, talk on social media, and develop my blog, traffic
should slowly tick up.

And with all the configuration set up, that led me to the last thing I needed
which was speed optimization. Typically the biggest speed killer is images. Most
people do not compress and optimize their images enough from what I've seen.
Just by compressing images and converting them into modern formats like WebP you
can cut a ridiculous amount of loading time. Along with those things, adding
lazy loading, not loading an image until your scroll is near to it on the page,
minimizes the amount of images that even need to be loaded initially. Gatsby has
a killer plugin that essentially optimizes your images, converts them into
modern formats like WebP, and also implements lazy loading. It also creates
backups in jpg or png in case the user's browser can't use WebP. Anyone who
spends time trying to minimize loading times knows how essential these types of
processors are.

<figure>![Image Optimization with Gatsby](./image-optimization.png)</figure>

Along with optimizing images, which I would say is the biggest time saver, it
was really important to minimize the amount of Javascript being run on page
load. I've been on sites where so many different api calls and processes are
immediately being run that it absolutely kills loading speed. It's really
important to get a page to the user as fast as possible. Other than making a
GraphQL query to grab my initial home page images and using a Javascript
function to re-structure their objects, I avoided making any other initial
Javascript calls on the home page.

With the optimized images and minimal Javascript, my app's performance was
getting 100 on Google Lighthouse which is the best score you can get. I was
really stoked and pleased with myself. Unfortunately, 3rd party scripts that put
things in like code tracking and analytics can really slow things down. After I
added the Sentry, Plausible, and Hotjar scripts to my project, my website's
score went from 100 to 94 which was a bummer. I dug in for solutions. The
Plausible script is very minimal and meant to be fast, so this wasn't affecting
the score at all. I was accidentally implementing a very heavy Sentry script, so
I instead implemented a very minimal script and this increased my score
significantly. Unfortunately with Hotjar there is no lightweight script so it
still had my score at around 96 by itself.

Gatsby recently set up a Script API which allows you to load your 3rd party
scripts in different ways, either after page hydration, whenever their is an
idle time, or by using a new cutting edge library called Partytown that runs the
script seperately from your application in a service worker, so it doesn't load
in the same place as the rest of the code. The default option of post hydration
worked for Sentry and Plausible, but unfortunately with Hotjar neither of the
first 2 options worked. It was still messing up the performance score, even with
those optimizations. I decided to play around with Partytown to see if I could
make some magic happen.

<figure>![Partytown website and explanation](./partytown.png)</figure>

After grinding away for several hours I got things configured to load the Hotjar
script seperately and get my score back to 100, but because Partytown is still
experimental it was still quite error prone and not working 100% of the
time.Since having the website broken for any user is too big of a risk for me,
using Partytown doesn't make sense for me until it evolves more. I decided to
disable Hotjar for now but will re-enable it for certain stretches of user
tracking when I need it. With Hotjar disabled my website performance is sitting
at 100 and my other website markets are great as well. Because of my background
font combination I don't have a perfect accessiblity score, but I'm not willing
to change that up for a perfect score. All other accessiblity is great, screen
reader wise.

<figure>![Lighthouse score for jaybittner.com](./lighthouse.png)</figure>

This website is very new and still in the beginning stages. However, now that
it's built out, my work on it going forward will mostly be developing project
analysis like this, creating interesting blog content, and further developing my
SEO. Outside of the site I need to get customers to my website and as I get more
and more happy customers I'll add more testimonials and examples of the work
I've done for them. Nothing is more important to me than a happy customer so
I'll keep going hard in the paint on that angle.

<figure className="flex flex-row justify-center">
  <iframe
    width="560"
    height="315"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bTHH34rCCeU"
    title="YouTube video player"
    frameBorder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
    allowFullScreen
  ></iframe>
</figure>
