---
title: "How I went from construction worker to software developer"
description:
  "I explain my journey of how I got to developer status. If I can do it, you
  can do it."
slug: "construction-to-developer"
date: "2022-10-04"
hero_image: "./construction.jpg"
hero_image_alt: "A construction worker using a skill saw"
hero_image_credit_text: "Greyson Joralemon"
hero_image_credit_link: "https://unsplash.com/photos/A1g0oeX29ec"
---

This is my first blog post and I figured I'd start it off with a bang. I've been
coding professionally for about 8 years and realized I've never really talked
about my coding journey other than in my social circle. Over that process I've
had my ups and downs but it's been a really rewarding career overall that's
opened a lot of doors for me. What started as a struggle trying to find my place
in the world eventually ended up on a trajectory into coding.

It was sometime in 2010, I had recently graduated with my Bachelor's Degree in
Marketing out in beautiful Southern California where I'm from. I was feeling so
upbeat and positive about life after succeeding in that part of my life. After 4
years of working my ass off and not making a lot of money, I was finally going
to start having a nice salary, consistent work, and start saving up some money.
I had gotten a degree in Business so that had to mean money and I was only 22 so
I was getting a head start, more ahead then most of my friends, so I had plenty
of time to make money.

My optimism soon disappeared. It was true that I had graduated and done a good
job but it was also true that the economy had crashed hard after the huge
recession. I quickly found out no one was looking for my services. I hired a
specialist to help me write my resume, wrote unique cover letters for each
company, and sent 100s of applications out into the universe. Even after all
that, no one gave a fuck. I got about 5 interviews and each one had about 50
people competing for 1 job. Not only was I competing against fellow entry level
workers but also more senior workers whose positions had been eliminated due to
the crisis.

After several months of trying unsuccessfully, I decided to do a free marketing
internship because it felt like my only way to cut through was to get some
experience on my resume. I started working with a company in Hollywood that did
social media and other marketing services for some minor celebrities and
businesses in LA. The plan was to work a couple months with them and then try
again. They would give me a recommendation and help sell me to any prospective
company that was interested in me after I worked with them. I hustled for a
couple months and then tried my luck again but generated just as little interest
as before. No one was interested.

Once this was going on for awhile I really had no money. I had a piece of paper
that said I did good in school but no money. I felt like a reject because I
couldn't find my place in society. There were no small victories or lights at
the end of the tunnel I could feel positive about. After about a year of trying
with no luck, I did what I had to do which was go into the family construction
business. I felt depressed because it seemed like I went to school and studied
hard, only to end up back in construction. However, due to the current
landscape, I felt fortunate to have a job and was thankful to my dad for getting
me back on my feet.

The next couple years, I slowly built myself up in construction. I started off
doing general labor and slowly built up my skills. I really hated the daily
labor so I worked my way into a situation where I was working with a master
electrician. I figured that if I was going to have to do construction I should
at least do a higher paying more technical job with less labor. After working
with him for a little while I became the main electrician in the company and
wired up several houses in the process. I was pretty good at what I was doing
and enjoyed the technical work, but never felt much enjoyment from it or
something that I wanted to do long term. I was doing side jobs and working on
the weekends to make more money, but it felt like a grind. I had enough to pay
my bills and nothing else. On top of that, I was also hoping to get out of
construction before I blew my hand off from electrical or fell off a ladder.

While I was working in construction, I was constantly looking for new
opportunities. I was looking for my way out. I had come to the realization that
there was a good chance I wouldn't be working in Marketing or traditional
business related profession. Not only was it hard to differentiate myself from
others without significant experience, but it was hard to have unique skills
that others didn't have within this profession. It also seemed there were very
limited jobs. I started looking into Amazon FBA and trying to start my own
business. At least I wouldn't reject myself.

For about a year, I grinded and did my best to make the Amazon business
successful. I would research products that were undervalued and underpriced and
sell them for double or triple on Amazon. A lot of the products I tried did
well, but it was very hard to get a steady supply of them. There were also
several that simply did not sell and they got stuck in limbo for several months
without moving. All I could do with those was slowly get my money back. I did
hit it big with one hot sauce product that I could get for $7 and sell it for
$40-$50 on Amazon. It was something I could get at a restaurant supply in LA and
constantly refill. I made money off of it for a couple years but a better
product eventually showed up and killed my sales. I also had difficulties
finding another product as remotely successful. It was nice to make some money
but never enough to get me out of construction.

As time went on, I got more and more depressed but I kept feeling the desire to
make it in something. I wanted to travel, have fun, and enjoy life experiences.
Instead I was barely having enough money to pay rent and whenever my truck broke
I had $0 again. I kept searching through opportunities until I came across
something amazing I had never seen before. It was a place called App Academy in
San Francisco where you could go to a 3 month bootcamp, quickly gain valuable
skills, and then get a high paying job after finishing. What was even cooler was
they wouldn't charge you and would take the money when you got a job. I felt
like I had just found the golden opportunity I had been chasing after for years.

Upon researching further into the program, I found out that the acceptance rate
was about 5% and my competition had a significant advantage against me because a
lot of them had some coding experience, whereas I had practically none, other
than making Pokemon sites when I was 10. I felt discouraged but also felt like I
was smart enough to learn coding. During my life, I always loved computers and
technology and it seemed to be something that came easy to me compared to other
things. App Academy was in San Francisco and I was living in Los Angeles, so I
decided to research if there was anything similar in my local area.

With some more digging I actually did find that there was one new school in LA
that offered exactly what I was looking for. The school, General Assembly, was
located right in the heart of Santa Monica, right by the pier. They had part
time courses and also a full time immersion course, which was similar to what
they offered at App Academy. Their promises of giving you enough skills to get
your first job were also there. They had free info sessions so you could learn
more about the course so I scheduled one.

Sitting in the info session and being around that environment felt so cool and
surreal to me. It was so far removed from what I was doing in construction.
Learning about the course and seeing all the cutting edge technologies, I felt
so much excitement and opportunity. I've never felt so convinced that I needed
to be a part of something then in this moment of my life. I was going to show my
face and be as active in this community as I could to make sure I got to be a
part of it. I started showing my face a lot and socializing with the people who
worked there, making sure they knew me. After learning more about the program, I
decided to apply for the full immersion and go all in on trying to become a
coder. But first I had to get past the application process.

The process of selecting students for the WDI (Web Development Immersive) was
somewhat difficult, but nowhere near as challenging as the App Academy's 5%. It
actually felt like I had a shot to get into this program. There were some tests
and interviews that I had to do beforehand. Also, even if I go in, the payment
structure was different, they took the money beforehand, about $12k, $12k that I
didn't have. It wasn't exactly easy and straightforward but my focus was doing
this and only this. One day, I finally got the email I was hoping for, I got in.
I was so thankful after all the shit I had gone through that I finally got a
chance, which was all I could ask for. My parents, knowing how strong my desire
was to make this opportunity happen, gave me a loan for the course. I'm forever
thankful to them for that.

As the bootcamp started, I was nervous and excited at the same time. I had
stopped working, had no savings, and was going to be paying for all my food and
rent with my credit card. Not only that, but I was living in an apartment in a
relationship with my girlfriend that was about to fail. If I failed in this, I
was going to be in a lot of debt and out of options. I was determined not be a
failure and finally find my place in the professional world. For the next 3
months I would only give a fuck about coding and nothing else.

For the next 3 months, I went to school every morning, ready to absorb as much
code as humanly possible. I was learning things I had never known about before
and feeling like my brain was broken every night. We always had a project we
were working on and were expected to have 4 projects in our portfolio by the end
of 3 months so I spent almost every night at the school working on a project.
I'd like to say it was 100% code but I spent a lot of nights drinking with the
other students in my class after my brain had nothing left. We worked our ass
off but had a lot of drinks and fun throughout the process. Some of the funnest
and most interesting people I've spent time with. It was great going to coding
war with them. I still keep in touch with some of them today.

At the conclusion of the bootcamp, I had managed to put together, while not
perfect, 4 projects for my portfolio. Our learning had primarily been in HTML,
CSS, Javascript, Angular, and Ruby on Rails. The first project, which was a
Tic-Tac-Toe game was made in Angular and kind of customized with cats and other
funny stuff. The second project was a full blown Rails project and was an
application where I used Twilio to send scheduled text message reminders for
different things. The third project was an Airbnb clone but for eating food at
people's houses, also built with Rails and using Google Maps. Finally, the last
project was sort of a Snapchat clone made with Node.js

The school was good about giving us a showcase where they invited several
employers and members of the startup community for us to network with. We had
our computers and monitors out with our apps up and could show them off to each
person. Some of my classmates were more talented and impressive but I managed to
hit it off well with a CTO from one of the startup companies. He really liked
all the effort I put into my apps and was impressed about the hustle. We also
got along well and were laughing together like friends. I wasn't feeling any
obvious optimism from the other companies but I felt like I had a good shot with
that one.

About a month after finishing the school, putting out applications, doing some
networking, and getting some interviews, I went into the interview with the
startup CTO I had a good feeling about. Believe it or not, I got stuck in
terrible LA traffic, was 30 minutes late, everything possible that could go
wrong. When I finally arrived, I apologized and could tell he was annoyed. He
made the comment of "30 minutes late to an interview". As we started talking
though we got along great and things felt really good. After the interview, I
finally got what I'd been looking for for 4 years. I was now 26 and getting my
first job opportunity. I still tried to hustle for $80k but we settled on $60k
which was an unbelieveable amount of life changing money for me at that point.
On top of that great experience, one of my classmates also got hired at the same
company, so it was a great day for both of us. We had finally made it.

I'm not gonna lie, I felt my struggle and emotions all over again while writing
out this post. I followed the system of going to university so I could get a
nice job, only to get a rude awakening upon graduation. My resiliency was tested
several times as I felt rejection over and over again. People teasing me for
working in construction with my college degree. Trying to make a business and
not really succeeding. And trying to join a career that I had absolutely no
qualifications for and never studied for. But eventually I got what I was
looking for and I'm still happily working in coding 8 years later and have found
my spot in the professional world. I know first hand that the process of trying
to get a career started can be heartbreaking and painful so I decided to put my
experience out there to show that it's possible. Don't give up and I'm here if
you need me.
